Create your first Landscape application I
=========================================

This is the first part of the Getting Started series.

Preparations
-------------

This guid asumes that you have installed Ubuntu Linux >= 15.10 and you have PHP,
SQLite3, and composer running.

Install Webserver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First you will need to install a webserver, we will use Apache which is an
open source solution that should be fine in almost any situation. To do so use
the following commands in a terminal (you will need root rights):

.. code-block:: bash

  user@host:$ sudo apt update
  user@host:$ sudo apt install apache2 libapache2-mod-php5

After you have done that, you have to go to the DocumentRoot of your server, It
will propably be ``/var/www/html``.

Configure Webserver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For most webapps you want to create a ``.htaccess`` file, which contains a simple
rule to direct all requests to your application.

.. note::
  This does still allow you to host multiple Landscape Apps by using our Router
  component!

So create this file in your DocumentRoot and make sure it contains the following
rule:

.. code-block:: bash

  RewriteEngine on
  RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !index\.php$
  RewriteRule (.*) /index.php [PT]

The first line enables the rewriting engine which will perform the next two steps:

#. Make sure that the requested URI is not index.php (here will live our app).
#. Redirect to index.php (``[PT]`` makes sure that the URL in the users browser
   will stay the same).

Setup Composer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Landscape Framework uses Composer to distribute its modules. To get started,
just use the following ``composer.json``:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "require": {
        "landscape/landscape": ">=0.1.1"
    }
  }

After that, just fire ``composer install`` or ``composer update`` and you are
ready to go!

In the :doc:`next part <02>` we will start writing some source code.
