Create your first Landscape application V
===========================================

This is the fifth part of the Getting Started series.

User Input
-----------

To recive user input you use forms as usual. I highly suggest using POST because
URL's get ugly very fast if you use GET.

Edit Template
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We should add a little form to our ``index.html``:

.. code-block:: HTML

    <form method="post" action="/add">

        <table>
            <tr>
                <td><label for="title">Title</label></td>
                <td><input type="text" name="title"></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><label for="title">Post Body</label></td>
                <td><textarea name="body"> </textarea></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><input type="submit" value="Add"></td>
                <td></td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </form>

Backend Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~

You see that we are sending that data to a new 'page' called ``/add``, so we need
to create a new callback for this route. Just add this line to the router:

``['/add', 'Landscape\addItem'],``

Now we write a simple callback:

.. code-block:: PHP

    function addItem($url, $args)
    {
        $note = new Note();
        $note->set('title', $_POST['title']);
        $note->set('body', $_POST['body']);
        $note->set('created', new \DateTime('now'));
        $note->save();
        header("Location: /");
    }

So we add a new Note object to the database and fill in the values from the ``_POST``
array. You should make sure that these values exist before using them, but this
should not be an introduction to PHP/Programming.
Even if we did't use the ``created`` field, it could simply be added to the page
and is also usefull to filter objects.

Finaly, we use the ``header`` function to request a redirect to root of the server
which will bring the user back to the index page.

Now you should be able to simply add Notes via the form.
